# How to write scenarios

The easiest way to start is to copy one of the existing scenarios (be it clash or coop) and edit it.
However, there is a set of predefined [**templates**](https://github.com/qwrtln/Homm3BG-mission-book/tree/main/templates) you can use as a fresh start.


## Common guidelines

- New scenarios are contributed to the Draft Book (in the `draft-scenarios/` directory).

- Each scenario type has its own root directory where it belongs: `coops`, `clash`, `campaigns`, or `allliances`. Apart from adding the scenario itself, you have to register it in the directory's `main.tex`.

- Every scenario needs an image (the one to the left of the title, see the [rewrite repository](https://github.com/Heegu-sama/Homm3BG/tree/main/assets/spells) for inspiration), map images generated by the [**map editor**](http://homm3bgmapeditor.zedero.nl/), and map files exported as a backup from the same tool. See below for details.


## Best practices

- To compile your scenario quickly, use `-s` option with the build script. For instance, if your scenario is called "Dances with Dwarves", you can run `tools/build.sh -s 'dances with'` to build only your scenario instead of the whole book.

- Try to contain your PRs to a single scenario at a time. If you have multiple scenarios to add, create a PR for each of them.

- Always add screenshots of your scenario to the PR. You can use [**the screenshot script**](scripts.md#pdf2imagesh) to generate them.

- If you're updating an existing scenario, create comparison images using the [**compare pages script**](scripts.md#compare_pagessh).

## Maps

1. Use the [**map generator**](http://homm3bgmapeditor.zedero.nl/) to create your maps.

2. Always **export** the final map from the **map generator** and store it in a new file in `assets/map-files`.

3. Crop your map file to content.

## Solo Campaign

Your first scenario should start with the following line that adds a record to the table of contents:

```latex
\cleardoublepage\phantomsection\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{\protect\numberline{} {} {} {} {}<Campaign Name Here>}
```

The `\addscenariosection` has to set its default parameter to `subsection` to appear correctly in table of contents. Other game types (Clash, Alliance, Cooperative) don't need the extra parameter.

```latex
\addscenariosection[subsection]{1}{Campaign name}{Scenario name}{\images/title.png}
```
